README.md, before:

# lmn-misc-tools
Miscellaneous tools for lmn v7

Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/jolly-jump/lmn-misc-tools.git
cd lmn-misc-tools
```

## linuxmuster-client-fixpermissions.sh

Run like this
```
./linuxmuster-client-fixpermission.sh
```

whenever you tampered with the directory under
``/srv/linbo/linuxmuster-client/bionic`` to make sure the client can
download all the files and ``~``-Files are deleted.

## benchmark_webui.py

Run like this (e.g.) on the server:
```
for i in `seq 10` ; do time ./benchmark_webui.py -u schuelte -p 'geheim!' >/dev/null 2>&1 &  done
```

to simulate ten login processes in the WebUI.
- install ``pygments`` module to have pretty printed output
- usage: 
```
usage: benchmark_webui.py [-h] [-s SERVERURL] [-v] -u USER -p PASSWORD

Test the login process of the WebUI. Login, retrieve identity, retrieve quota,
measure time.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -s SERVERURL, --serverurl SERVERURL
                            Server URL to use, defaults to "https://server"
  -v, --verbose         Show the output of Identity and Quota retrieval
  -u USER, --user USER  Username to use for login
  -p PASSWORD, --password PASSWORD
                        Password to use for login
```

## workaround_enable_studentlogin.sh

run like this
```
./workaround_enable_studentlogin.sh
```
whenever you upgraded linuxmuster-webui7 package, in order to allow
students to login to the Schulkonsole/WebUI.

## informatik-biber-create-list.py

Create a list for the german CS competition "Informatik Biber" from the sophomorix-export.

- install gender_guesser ``pip3 install gender_guesser``
- start ``sophomorix-print`` and copy the resulting file ``cp /var/lib/sophomorix/print-data/add-unknown_WebUntis-unix.csv  ./add.csv``

Run like this
``
./informatik-biber-create-list.py
``
and answer the questions
- which classname belongs to which grade:
```
...
biberklasse => None : ok? oder andere Stufe eingeben. (Enter, 0-13)
k2 => 13 : ok? oder andere Stufe eingeben. (Enter, 0-13)12
...
```
- which gender a user has that could not be guessed:
```
10a 10 Jascha Müller mostly_male
Give gender on commandline m or f: m
```

- upload the resulting file ``schueler.biber.csv`` to the competition

Commit message:

add using a prefix for your school and not mine

README.md, after:

# lmn-misc-tools
Miscellaneous tools for lmn v7

Clone the repository
```
git clone https://github.com/jolly-jump/lmn-misc-tools.git
cd lmn-misc-tools
```

## linuxmuster-client-fixpermissions.sh

Run like this
```
./linuxmuster-client-fixpermission.sh
```

whenever you tampered with the directory under
``/srv/linbo/linuxmuster-client/bionic`` to make sure the client can
download all the files and ``~``-Files are deleted.

## benchmark_webui.py

Run like this (e.g.) on the server:
```
for i in `seq 10` ; do time ./benchmark_webui.py -u schuelte -p 'geheim!' >/dev/null 2>&1 &  done
```

to simulate ten login processes in the WebUI.
- install ``pygments`` module to have pretty printed output
- usage: 
```
usage: benchmark_webui.py [-h] [-s SERVERURL] [-v] -u USER -p PASSWORD

Test the login process of the WebUI. Login, retrieve identity, retrieve quota,
measure time.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -s SERVERURL, --serverurl SERVERURL
                        Server URL to use, defaults to "https://server"
  -v, --verbose         Show the output of Identity and Quota retrieval
  -u USER, --user USER  Username to use for login
  -p PASSWORD, --password PASSWORD
                        Password to use for login
```

## workaround_enable_studentlogin.sh

run like this
```
./workaround_enable_studentlogin.sh
```
whenever you upgraded linuxmuster-webui7 package, in order to allow
students to login to the Schulkonsole/WebUI.

## informatik-biber-create-list.py

Create a list for the german CS competition "Informatik Biber" from the sophomorix-export.

- install gender_guesser ``pip3 install gender_guesser``
- start ``sophomorix-print`` and copy the resulting file ``cp /var/lib/sophomorix/print-data/add-unknown_WebUntis-unix.csv  ./add.csv``

Run like this
``
./informatik-biber-create-list.py "prefix-"
``
and answer the questions
- which classname belongs to which grade:
```
...
biberklasse => None : ok? oder andere Stufe eingeben. (Enter, 0-13)
k2 => 13 : ok? oder andere Stufe eingeben. (Enter, 0-13)12
...
```
- which gender a user has that could not be guessed:
```
10a 10 Jascha Müller mostly_male
Give gender on commandline m or f: m
```

- upload the resulting file ``schueler.biber.csv`` to the competition

complete usage:
```
usage: informatik-biber-create-list.py [-h] [-d] prefix

Create logins for the Informatik Biber with usernames and passwords, using a
given prefix

positional arguments:
  prefix                Prefix for all usernames

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -d, --dont-ask-gender
                        Skip asking questions about the gender, results in
                        anonym for all unknown gender types
```
